good morning I'm Kathleen Cohen I'm an
experienced strategist sometimes folks
call me a part humanist tech futurist
and I've been working in location-based
entertainment and themed attractions and
everything else that Peter had shared
recently I've added legacy architect
likeness producer to my repertoire which
is a mouthful but hopefully after my
talk you'll get this 10,000 foot view
into my view into physical and virtual
our futures so with that thank you -
Peter - Josette - Barry the gray area
foundation and team and all of the
sponsors for including me so on
Thursdays pre-conference I was telling
Josette god this is such a
like-mindedness the thought leadership
in the group is so on point and I love
being here how did I not connect with
gray area for so many years even though
you know I've been at Burning Man every
year since 2001 so I'm like how did I
miss this anyway so indulge me for a
moment I'm gonna share with you a little
bit of a family story to start so yeah
this is wonderful in October 2002 17
years ago it was my sole job to create a
proper burial for my grandmother
Ann Cohen at 98 years old and that
burial was to take place at the
legendary Hollywood Forever Cemetery
so like show of hands does anybody know
about the Hollywood Forever Cemetery in
Los Angeles okay I think I saw like two
or three hands so yeah so this place is
super famous
it houses Bugsy Siegel who created Las
Vegas I would go on to say Johnny and TD
Ramon Chris Cornell more recently
Rudolph Valentino back in the day and
over 60 years ago my grandfather bought
matching vaults for he and my
grandmother who was 28 years older than
she
so I'm sitting in the funeral offices
and I'm talking to the funeral director
and she's asking me about my needs and
she chimes in and she said I just need
to tell you you know where the
production office is for Six Feet Under
and we have a shoot going on so we can't
bury your grandmother right now
and I was like you know we're Jews we
have 72 hours she needs to go in the
ground so she's like in three days we
can create a music video of her life we
can create a complete video production
of her legacy and think about this when
your family comes to the park we're
doing like four rocks around the park
where everybody that's buried here is
gonna have a full production video we
could do that in three days and you know
is that gonna work for you
no it's not gonna work for me and then
she went on to ask the most provocative
question that actually led to this talk
she said while we prep her body do you
want us to grab her DNA and I was like
what she's like yeah when we prep her
body it's a good idea you really should
consider it I was like was that on the
sign did you guys is this what you guys
are leading with you know this was 2002
17 years ago this was like the uncanny
valley of funeral requests back then you
know I was like is she gonna say do you
want our ashes on my salad for take-out
in the commissary like what the hell's
going on here I didn't even like have a
clue so in 2002 Minority Report had just
come out and the feature phone was a
Nokia feature phone sponsored in that
movie and it had a camera on it for the
first time so just to give some
perspective on smartphones and where we
were back then even working in Hollywood
Steven Spielberg had to convene a
futurist convention even to have
Minority Report live up to its future
which it has but the concept of
collecting DNA was like way beyond my
realm so yeah this is a total special
place here I suggest if anybody's in LA
go check it out because all these actors
and musicians and all these luminaries
they're coming here to live they're not
coming to die with capturing DNA they're
all like living on so this is what's
really relevant at my talk as far as
physical and virtual likeness in our
near future so can I show a hands who's
seen this movie really not one amazing
everyone Oh see there is somebody here
so yeah Hollywood right we sum it up all
the time pretty well with what's gonna
happen in the future so I'm
read you a little blip about this so you
understand so this is the movie the
Congress that came out in 2013 and the
short version is an aging out-of-work
actress accepts one last job but the
consequences of her decision affect her
in so many ways she didn't consider so
Robin Wright who actually played The
Princess Bride is back in this movie and
she agrees to preserve her likeness for
a studio to use in any future film that
it wants but she can't no longer work
only her likeness can work so this begs
a really big question which is is giving
up one part of myself in exchange for
freedom and another domain really worth
it and is the likeness of me more
valuable than my real self at some point
in the future so with regards to agency
and ownership in all the words that we
talk about I want you sort of to meet
your digital twin right now so we're
currently sitting at this moment where
we are the product we as humans are the
product and all of our facial
expressions all of our behaviors our
walk cycle our stunts our dance moves
like in fortnight all of that is body
shopped for parts soon and sold on the
free marketplace which begs the question
what does it mean to be alive today so
this is 12 companies right now and you
can see Shaun young in the top right
corner what took two years for one
minute for Blade Runner 49 yeah Blade
Runner 20 49 you can see that all of
these folks are all coming to the table
trying to find some kind of digital
likeness solution and there's so many
phrases that we're trying to define what
the common grammar here is or what the
common definition is that we're all
going to adhere to and my question is
which one of these companies is actually
going to be the one to own my likeness
as a whole my behavior my walk cycle my
laugh my talk the way I wink I raise one
eyebrow so most of all though what I
think about is or any one of these
companies going to own my intent or
my intentions in the future and that's
really the million dollar question so if
that wasn't bad this is twenty two more
names unique names for your digital
likeness and 22 more companies also that
I could have grabbed screenshots from
what each one of these companies are
doing to give you really the vastness of
the land rush that's happening right now
and how many folks are on this I was
gonna run it like Star Wars obviously
because it just keeps going but you know
without doing so consciously everybody
working on this long list is
representing human progress or some kind
of human intelligence we think right and
you know I respect what Sol machines is
doing in New Zealand they're
trademarking or they have just trademark
digital DNA so the company that
originally has captured so much of our
likeness from each digital human that it
has created has now created a DNA to
create a virtual gene pool so you know
you can look at this for the pros and
look at the cons but I'm thinking of
this like okay so when I send my digital
twin to a wedding a friend's wedding
because I can't make it it's socially
gonna be fine right or when my digital
twin gets sick in a foreign country
what's gonna happen with that so you
know all these avatars and digital
doubles have different names and
understandings and they all have
different behaviors right now but I
think what is really important is the
context of all of this especially how we
are all going to live in experiential
spaces so from my vantage point I look
at the architecture in three ways I look
at it from one me to me and you together
what's happening and three me you and
the room and the environment so what is
that environment that we're all going to
be sharing especially while everything's
being modified with its own DNA and
everything is soon gonna be smart so
this is Eva schloss I'm not gonna ask
who's seen this but maybe show her hands
okay
so Eva schloss she's a Holocaust
survivor peace activist she's a speaker
she's also the stepsister of Anne Frank
and she has an incredible store
of triumph and grit and she recently
starred in this movie that was in
Tribeca last year or two years ago I
think I think it was last year so this
documentary follows Eva around as she
takes on the idea of preserving her
story so of course it could be told
forever in an immersive hologram so
where I go with this is how soon is it
going to be that we're you know a gonna
be in the meta verse sitting around our
family table and wanting to have a
conversation with somebody from our
family history and pull them from our
human library and have a you know family
discussion but when you think about this
in the social relevance of it all and
the potential when you push past outside
your home I think about let's say waves
of attack the you know the wave of
attacks on places of worship and I think
okay now in the future with an online
search or any kind of search I can
actually pull up Eva and she becomes a
living hologram so I can cope with
what's happened so you know I can talk
to her and say Eva can you help me
process what just happened I can't deal
so I'm actually talking to somebody in
real time and in this case she was asked
2,000 questions on a light stage and
volumetrically captured so she lives in
perpetuity and you know obviously to
have impact but think about when she
dies and AI takes over and somebody's
answering for her brand now it's not her
but it's an alignment with her brand
now it's sad to say that all of us need
to be in check with our brand I mean
aside from personal brand managers for
social which you're like stop at this
please but you know in this case this
has got more levity to this or not
levity you know it's got more weight to
this so who owns Eva's voice at this
point
and she's dynamic she's elastic now and
you know do you know who your
great-grandmother was or your
grandmother was and would you if you're
the person in the family everybody said
you're most like would you want to talk
to her of course you would so this is a
it's a wordy slide but let me sort of
talk through it so you know our
perception of reality is more
fragmentary than ever and there's an
opportunity to finally evolve now in a
positive way as a species so here's an
example of who's documenting digital
twins and
you know AWS I do want to just
paraphrase or you know sort of clean up
I'm saying meet your digital twin which
really is bastardizing this for the
industrialization and manufacturing
industry it's really not quite right
it's meet your digital human or meet
your digital human twin but this is all
part of the grammar problem right
digital twinning right now is reserved
for industrialization so Amazon is
created on the top of this chart what
their definition is is a you know for a
digital twin and I'm looking at this and
I'm hearing some of their folks talk and
I was like well can I just swap out a
couple things and call the bottom half
here's Kathleen Cohen's version of it
you know a digital twin and follow the
same roadmap that Amazon is going
through and I've highlighted in blue
what the differences are here and
there's many more but this is just at a
first glance
so the insights here to gain are
incredible if we match digital twins and
digital humans wins and and it made me
think do I want to keep my real identity
as a digital twin maybe I do because I
have 51 years of some serious wisdom I'm
like I don't want to give that up but
the flipside is maybe I've had a
lifelong disability and I never got to
participate in a community so yeah I'm
ready to give it up and actually have a
voice that I'm respected for or that I'm
cherished or that I'm taking at face
value so maybe I want to swap my gender
on an hourly basis on an as-needed basis
on a decade basis or my race or my age
anything so the Hollywood part of
storytelling and our digital twins is
endless even if you change your cookies
your cookie sets right now online and
you can change your identity
have you played through that is that
something that you'd be interested in
doing to find out how you're perceived
in the perceptual reality of all of it
so we could have so many relationships
with our digital twins psychologically
and behaviorally I'm thinking okay no
more existential crises because I think
I have one every day of day and I'm a
Gemini too so it's like you know this is
like we ran a monkey in in Chinese
astrology I think I'm like the clean
sweet sweet so anyway so where's this
place where's this place for digital
humans right now you know where's this
place we're imagining spatially
immersively
as well as experientially and from the
tech side all I ever hear is you know
cuz I'm on the product side we're in the
developer years I'm like we've been in
the developer years since I got off the
box as an animator way back when we've
been in the developer years but this gap
that we're sitting in right now is
causing a lot of pause for a lot of
people and it's also causing a lot of
trickery for people in betrayal of trust
with all the deep fakes that are out
there and everybody taking this to you
know a dark side so maybe it is
unfolding in dark ways but maybe it's
unfolding in you know new human interest
stories that we have yet to even talk
about but what's really at play
psychologically and emotionally is that
we're indexing vulnerability and this is
like not the neighbour on but we're
indexing vulnerability in a way where
we're in the observation of all of this
we're just sitting here and looking or
we're making a difference especially in
this room because these are the people
that do make the difference so what are
we going to be learning from all of this
and is it going to be how to connect
more deeply as humans because we're all
just gonna have a big mirror held up to
each other so how's this all coming
together right now in which headset is
going to transport us into the Metaverse
and when does ready player one actually
really kick in so when does man and the
Machine fully merge which I'm an
advocate for without having to wear gear
but I don't know if I want retinal
implants right now but I do understand
human potentials so you know what are
the goals so this past March on the
cover of Wired it was appropriately
titled welcome to the mirror world and
the article pointed out not who we were
as digital human twins but who we were
in the environment and what this
environment is going to look like so I'm
gonna read their quote the mirror world
is quoted as someday soon every place
and thing in the real world every street
every lamppost every building and every
room is gonna have a full-size digital
twin in the mirror world a virtual place
that's going to parallel the real world
and all of this is maybe falling on deaf
ears for everybody here but maybe not
just seeing you know the again 10,000
foot view and it's already happening and
we all know this so here's one mirror
world called the magic verse which is
magically it's version of the
or the mirror world or smart cities and
they're calling it their emergent system
of systems driven by AI and geographical
information systems and IOT and of
course a way into this world is through
their magic Lemoine goggles so arv RM r
XR r r yacht it's a vehicle for sure to
understand our spatial relations and to
understand our collective collaborative
tissue in all of this and it's got a lot
of questions it's got a lot of
complications it's got a lot of
innovations but are we going to solve
systemic world problems with this and is
that on everybody's radar I hear a lot
of that from Thursday to today so I'm so
hopeful but what I look at this too is
from the lens of the timeline so I
created this a history timeline and a
future timeline and this is just the
future one I'm showing right now but
here's where we are today so we're
sitting at the red dot we're straddling
between integrated media and immersive
media and this future timeline if you do
have or don't have something to say
about Moore's law and the rate of tech
changing and where we're ultimately
ending with that we haven't had a moment
to breathe at all in the darker blue box
in the immersive era and we've already
moved in to the white box with
disruptive and exponential with
autonomous vehicles with 5g it's like
start taking Kelvin iodine now computer
vision voice tech all of it 3d printing
of cities and then moving past the white
box after another recession our IP Ray
Kurzweil puts that the singularity
happens artificial superintelligence
takes over if you believe in that
timeline so if you don't want to find
yourself living in a video game at that
point and this is my shout out to all
architects and urban designers and
planners where the hell are you this is
all one big video game from my game
design background and that how are you
not driving this spatial conversation
right now with the questions that you
ask that game developers are not asking
so if you don't want to live in that
video game then you have another option
which is space colonization that's what
I call the not Terra Firma option but
keine because maybe death is imminent up
there I don't know but that could be
your plan B and
that's happening at a rapid rate - in
Silicon Valley with all the techno
philanthropists that are you know on
that on that charge but here's the point
it's 26 years away
so yes IFI is our reality everything
you've ever done since 1993 - today is
the timeline forward everything you've
done since 1993 - today so this is a
critical critical time period forward
and we have to put this into perspective
it's not that far away either we're
living through it our kids are living
through it or our kids kids and the
conditions are that it could look like
the hyper reality video on YouTube from
the last three years or it could reflect
what's unfolding in China's Social
Credit System as far as in a public
space we're all being gamified and
whether that's for social good or the
control of government you know it's
certainly it's certainly happening so my
question is who do you think owns your
face in America if surveillance
technology captures your face in a
public space who do you think owns it
and do you think you own yourself in a
public space or a virtual space and if
you even take what's happened in the
last two weeks with the aging app
someone owns the media of your likeness
not yet created 50 years ahead already
so many of my colleagues are up to this
on the glass half-full side not the
glass half-empty but I know that there's
a Hunger Games version of this talk
going on somewhere and this is the
moment the whole point that our
decisions are either going to bridge or
broaden gaps and with respect to our
digital twins and relating to one
another at what point is my digital
likeness going to be more relevant than
my physical being what date does that
kick in and is my likeness gonna
minimize my physical death because
technically I'm gonna be perceived as
immortal at some point so when does that
kick in so I'm all about giving shape to
the conversation inquiring about what's
rightfully yours making this the most
creative moment in the future and yeah
in real life some people are calling
this the proto peein era it's not the
dystopian it's not the utopian it's
proto pian which is defined by the state
of becoming and from the day your mom
puts your 4d ultrasound on facebook to
day you died to your legacy beyond what
are the products and services that you
think you need at this point while we're
living to have agency over your digital
twin before anybody else does and if
we're in the becoming of it all what do
we do with it
so you can call me you can call me to
talk about being your legacy architect
your immersive likeness producer your
Xperia have to look at my notes because
I've even know how to say this without
like tripping your experiential consumer
advocate I don't know I'm like what is
there anybody out there advocating for
me so I'm trying to lock down a
feasibility study around this right now
building a futures community designed
with intention with products and
services that tailor to your real life
your real likeness your real legacy not
leaving out the magic that makes up each
one of us but most importantly to have a
behavioral psychologist a cultural
anthropologist and a sociologist sitting
next to every young AI engineer before
they design any algorithm about me so
thank you
[Applause]